oh hey fella what do you got there what
is that legal marijuana and your hands
see what a closer look you activists you
I'm such a radical man the streets are
not safe when I'm out on the loose
radical seem like a regular guy yeah
yeah regular guy with a irregular amount
of stress The Walrus right there dude
you don't mind mind putting it there no
no not happy to come back and see it no
it stays on the desk
yeah this means as much to us as anybody
except for you well it's nice to see it
this is my this is my happy place this
is my safe place yeah I got to travel
across the country to be safe but it's a
it's certainly a pleasure to be here
again enjoy always have to thank you I
listen I thank you too I was texting
Whitney today I said you're a hero
you're a legitimate hero for people
don't know what this is all about I'll
give everybody the backstory Phil used
to work at Marineland he was an orca
trainer and he also trained a walrus
named smoochy smoochy is still allegedly
in captivity at Marineland all those no
photographic evidence but you're pretty
sure she's still there I was told that
she is still there and she's in good
shape and I'm hanging on to that since
you came on the podcast the first time
which was how many years ago No so six
years ago a thousand thirteen so he's
been living this lawsuit life for six
years trapped in a lawsuit with a
gigantic corporation with incredible
amounts of money that's been trying to
crush him and they've made up stuff well
tell me what what's happened give give
me your your perspective on how it all
was back in 2012 I made I was forced to
make a very difficult decision I elected
to speak out against the conditions of
which marine lands animals were living
in I did so knowing the risks knowing
that marine life was a litigious company
but I did so on account to the fact that
the animals were suffering incredibly
before quitting I had an agreement with
Marineland that look I'm leaving this is
long before I'd spoke out I'd spoken out
I'm leaving but you know we have to
establish that I can maintain this
relationship with the walrus because she
I am printed on her it's important to
stress that that she thinks I'm her mom
she was a baby she was a baby when she
came in so she was wild caught and you
can imagine probably witnessed her
mother get slaughtered that's the that's
the method of collecting babies by the
by the captors in Russia and so she
comes in traumatic at the age of we
estimate about 18 months of age which is
pretty old in fact for in our experience
I Marine lands experience of acquiring
these wild cut baby walruses and through
a sort of traumatic experience with her
that I was there with her this anomalous
thing happened where her brain circuitry
opened up and much like in the wild
where in the case of herd animals the
babies become familiar with the mothers
sound sense look everything all the
senses are acute they're aware of who
they of where they are so that they can
you know find each other amidst these
thousands of animals well this happened
to her so the brain circuitry opens
suddenly I'm imprinted on her I wasn't
prepared to leave marine land unless it
was of the understanding that I can
continue to help her because
historically my relationship with her
you know had everything to do with her
health and well-being I quit
with the understanding with marine land
this was to be the case I'd been gone
for a month I come back unannounced they
don't want to let me in they're hiding
something I get in I see her she's in
terrible shape I snap a few photos I
leave now amidst this you see terrible
shape what do you mean she was emaciated
she was bone dry she hadn't eaten in my
having been gone a month was the longest
she and I have ever actually been
physically apart I'd been trying to wean
my presence off of her so that other
trainers who would be able to maintain a
healthy you know healthy diet for her
healthy life she was emaciated because
she wasn't eating because of stress I
wasn't there for that month I can't say
but she was certainly not eating she
super-skinny they had of course on a
bunch of drugs which include psychotics
valium antidepressants I when I saw her
my jaw hit the floor it's important to
note that during this some newspapers
had been calling they wanted to know why
I quit if we back up a little bit it
should be noted that in 2007 my
relationship with smooshy sort of took
off in the early sort of internet viral
days and whatnot
we made front page of like CNN and Jimmy
Kimmel did a piece and so there was sort
of that backstory of the and I guess you
would call it a fluff celebrity type
thing but nonetheless my having left
started people started asked questions I
started feeling calls from this
newspaper who was looking it was keen on
doing an investigation of Marineland so
I wasn't gonna participate I had no
interest again stressing marine lands
litigious history and also look I've got
this relationship with a walrus that I I
sort of have to maintain I have to
really have to keep this relationship
with marina and healthy enough so once
I'd realized they weren't holding out of
that end of the bargain
you know the panic sets in I'm a
first-time mom it should be stressed so
I I basically called the newspapers and
I said you put my face my name and it
doesn't matter you just print it let's
go let's let's get the story out story
gets out well Marineland
as expected starts their lawsuits they'd
it's like a it's almost like a scorched
earth they take a scorched earth sort of
method and this was when the original
owner was alive yes it's no longer alive
he died he died last year in in June in
fact so years into this litigation so
they sued me they sued me for a million
five they sued my girlfriend they sued
other activists they sued newspapers
they they're suing everybody the mistake
they made is in all of their absurd
allegations that they've yet six and a
half years into into litigation yet to
prove any of it they cannot it's never
gonna happen it doesn't exist it's a
fictitious lawsuit it's full of lies and
bullshit bottom line the mistake they
made is they sued me for
plotting to steal smooshy that's where
the headlines take off and they also
called me the Kanye West of animal
training yeah I got your attention on
the Internet that's not how you got my I
said the Kanye West part didn't get
right well no you said they called you
the tweet was I said Joe you just say
when I'll book a flight to come to LA I
sent you the link to the to the story
the headline was Kanye West of animal
training being sued for plotting to
steal a walrus you wrote they called you
though what and then you slip the DMS
and said dude if you're ever in LA I
said you just say when well I started
reading the story when I started I've
you know I wrote a piece a long time ago
on my blog and I talked about it in one
of my comedy specials that I had a crazy
experience with dolphins once when I was
really really high and I had this I mean
it's it sounds silly to even talk about
but I almost feel like I kind of
understood that they're like us but they
just don't alter their environment well
I realized like when they were playing
with us and they were jumping by the
boat and they were looking at you
they're looking at you why they were
jumping around with the boat and I was
like they're playing and they're looking
at you like a person would like a water
person interacting there's almost a
language at this point there's some
level of bridged gap in the
communication when you get to see that
they're expressing themselves in
interest in you and what not and scoping
you in when you get really close and
established a relationship with these
animals that's when things start getting
real squirrely because you start to find
that happy medium language and now all
of a sudden you are starting to sort of
speak so to say yeah well I started
getting really weird feelings about
SeaWorld and and an animal captivity
like this what why do we need that in
this day and age like this isn't the
Dark Ages we shouldn't be putting whales
and orcas and dolphins putting them in
these tanks these fucking water swimming
pools they're fucking swimming pools and
you have these things that are probably
as smart as us in some different way
like we're
so prejudiced in that we only think of
intelligence is something that can
manipulate its environment that's our
problem
like we'll like look at them their bitch
a swirl they don't have any houses they
can't write a letter they they're
fucking stupid man stop it they're
stupid but the Dolphins apparently have
a cerebral cortex it's um something
around 40% larger than human beings they
have super complex languages their
emotional intelligence is the mystery
and it appears that it's far beyond
anything we ourselves can understand as
same as orcas they've got that they've
got another part of the brain in the
front which is that it's function in
that the front of the cerebral cortex
that function is - as for communication
and for and for it and it enhances their
emotional capacity to a point where we
don't really know the depth of which
they are the power of their emotion but
we know that they stay with their
families for their lifetimes the males
born from from the mothers will rarely
leave the mother's side quite literally
the distance of an orca itself the only
time that male will go on is when it's
matured it will go - so it's procreate
and then back to the mother and it will
live its entire life as such and the sad
fact about that is in my experience
working with male orcas caught from one
of which caught from the while the big
bull Orca is he was a mama's boy you can
see something was missing he was
traumatized from something and of course
even myself as a regarded whale expert
in the capacity of working at a freaking
place like marine land even I would have
never known this information when I
started this this is not information
that was available to us back and I
started in 2000 it makes sense now this
animals traumatized from birth he's his
will to live is just gone it and the
male it appears to me and in my
experience the male sex of well I've
worked with seals I've worked with sea
lions I've worked with walruses dolphins
belugas and orcas all of them died
younger the males die younger and I
think definitely in the orcas and in the
Dolphins cases is they just don't have
that will to live without that strong
turtle figure in their life this is what
I try to explain to people that don't
see it and I think that the Dolphins get
treated well or the orcas get treated
well this is what it imagine if someone
stole your son and put him in an air box
at the bottom of the ocean and dolphins
and whales and fish just came by and
stared at him imagine and he lives his
life like that with no contact other
than with his his dolphin handlers or
whoever's taking care of him and he just
lives in this box
missing his family missing his loved
ones missing his life and feels lost and
with with a language that is especially
with orcas and dolphins they have a
language it's so complex we haven't been
able to really decipher it we don't
understand how it works you know John
Lilly spent they spent I think decades
working on trying to get dolphin to
speak human noises he had a bunch of
studies that he did and he even had a
dice it's a crazy story I'm sure you've
heard it on the woman who lived with the
dolphin she she'd tried to establish a
relationship with the dolphin where she
they made an apartment that was half
underwater but the dolphin always wanted
to fuck so she just jerked the dolphin
off and when she jerked the dolphin off
that was the only thing that calmed him
down and then she'd do her work so for
her it was just like a technicality I
just got a jerk this dolphin off it's an
animal it wants to be rubbed all the
moral stuff that's attached to that is
all in my own head she's like I'm just
gonna be a scientist and they were like
guys get that fuck what I think they
were also injecting ketamine into the
Dolphins or something I do not know if
they were doing that into dolphins but I
do know that they did some experiments
with LSD and that John Lilly who was one
of my personal heroes he's the creator
of the floatation tank this was all John
Lilly stuff he was a pioneer in
interspecies communication he would take
acid and think that he was communicating
with dolphins did you know you're on the
cover of one of his books what yes we
talking about your face is I mean it's
it's a spitting image on in one of his
books one of Lilly's books yeah
maybe this appears in time traveler shit
dude I'm sorry how is that that's
fucking weird man
that's fucking weird yeah Wow
so that's pro grant read that what does
it say something human bio-computer yeah
I didn't read that one
I read the deep self the deep self is
really interesting and the deep self i
think the deep self is the one that also
has diagrams on how to build a tank he
was trying to get people to build tanks
he was like listen man I found some shit
out you gotta try this the last time
when I was here not the last time two
times ago you actually sent me to crash
yeah man crash I have to crash the float
lab and he you know I thought I'd be in
there for an hour turns I was in there
for a couple and when I came what I'm
like dude was waiting for the knock just
like let you stay in there like oh shit
look at the time crashes a little like a
legit hippie yo yeah he's great he's the
mad scientist behind float lab yeah
that's why those things are so well
engineered when I met him I was like
what I was like cuz I tanks before that
when I I first got a tank in like 2002
somewhere around then 2002 2003 and it
was it was great but it was like it
would break things would go wrong it
flooded my basement it was like there
was disasters it was it and then my
friend who was a tank technician there's
actually tank technicians he said listen
you gotta get to check out this guy in
Venice so some mad scientist down there
in Venice was just making these super
over-engineered float tanks and he was
they look like walking meat lockers
right oh my god you had like a pod
install I had it was a very good tank
it's just that uh it just it wasn't as
well constructed it also wasn't nearly
as expensive just he went the distance
he went the distance and he still keeps
coming over here I've got to change
things I got a we're upgrading we're
doing that he's like he's always for him
enhance the experience for everyone yeah
he's always trying to make it better
he's the front of the line and when I
first started working with him like when
I first started having him on the
podcast and
and I hired him to build me a tank and
all that chance like there was no tanks
it was it was real rare that you'd find
tank centers now they're fucking
everywhere man they're everywhere I'll
say this the experience I had in his
tank versus the one that I'd there's a
local place from where where I'm from
was hands-down at different events
because he really isolates you there was
this was like a pod that they bought and
installed in a room I mean it was great
this is super insulated so there's no
fucking noise getting in that thing he
gave me the tour of the whole backstage
too I was all back to check it shit I
was like wow it's got a serious complex
there it's hard to appreciate but when
he first started making tanks like that
which look again I think I bought one of
his tanks in 2005 I think somewhere
around then dude but there was no one
making anything like that he's making
this super high-end crazy fucking double
wall insulated tanks and you get in
there it's just yeah just nothing and
you just you just get taken into the I
this in it's a good place to think about
the subject that we're talking about
today we got to stop doing that with
dolphins and orcas it's gonna be thought
of the same way we think about slavery
today it's her that it's horrific we
can't understand that we can't believe
that compassion and human beings would
be willing to isolate members of a super
social highly intelligent animal species
and just put them in swimming pools it's
fuckin barbaric it's crazy it's torture
it's it's what's sad here is you know
we're years removed from the documentary
blackfish yeah and you know that was
really impactful I mean arguably
responsible for the paradigm shift that
we're that we're experiencing here in
North America and other places of course
but maybe it's time for people to
revisit it I know SeaWorld their stock
and their value is sort of going up now
granted they you know they changed their
numbers they skew it they have free beer
day they pump the numbers up you know
they have all these different promotions
whatever I mean everything that comes
out of these these facilities these
assume it to be all bullshit by the way
it's all bullshit but not enough people
question them on it but as we speak
while we're amidst sort of a paradigm
shift here and
I mean I can speak to it because I mean
I'm very happy to say that we have very
effectively decimated Marineland and
we'll talk more about that but over in
China this is now a burgeoning business
and I and I did we discussed this a year
and a half ago and it's it's tenfold now
it's happening very quickly and I'm sure
you're familiar with the whale Jail
situation in Russia have you seen that
no I'm not they've got enclosed in this
Bay they've got over a hundred wild cat
belugas and orcas so there's about ten
orchids if I'm not mistaken and some
activists flew a drone over it
this got worldwide attention a lot of
outcry a lot of anger of course so what
happened was Jamie show us right now for
the folks that are listening and we're
looking down at what looks like swimming
pools with I guess those are belugas
those have all been sold those are
essentially sold and ready to go to
China but on account to the fact that
the activists got this and created a
real worldwide stink all the negative
press that came of it they've now
resolved that they wanna try to well
they've they've hard considered releases
the governor in the area signed a intent
to release agreement with the world sank
with the whale sanctuary project who
sent a team to assess the animals health
and whatnot and this was all of like
three weeks ago it's not a long time ago
and they assessed that all these animals
should be released there's a couple of
issues there's a couple of things that
that are becoming conflicting a it's
going to require a lot of cost if it's
done responsibly be it appears ok so
what's happened is as we know Russia is
not exactly a democratic environment
only one person makes the decisions on
account of what becomes of these whales
whereas there was some PR stunts to say
hey we're gonna we want to release them
we want to do this to sort of mitigate
the global outrage the captors have
propagandized this entire effort to free
these whales as a means for the West to
undermine the Russia's Russia's economy
so the whale trade economy
here's where Marineland comes into play
in a theory at this point but it has
these very intense implications what we
know about what Marineland is doing
currently in their transition from
brilliantly successful business to
virtually decimated thank you
is there shipping there whales out we
know two are going out if it's not this
week it'll be very soon I'll be shocked
if they're not out I'm in LA so I can't
say that it's happening right now I
think it may be very well be happening
this week they're going to Spain we know
that five other permits have been
requested to send these animals now to
the states so is that they're
liquidating their the intent that
they're going through liquidating but
the issue is if in fact Russia catches
wind that marine land is sent sending
their whales but let's use the
worst-case scenario to China it
validates the Russian captors propaganda
and concerns suddenly what we're concern
is going to happen is those animals
suddenly Putin says forget it sell them
ship them out that's that's a scenario
but why would you do that because again
the the captors are propaganda is that
the West wants to cripple the Russia's
economy their wild whale sale economy so
if marine line is selling whales to
China from Canada and then suddenly the
captors have a point they'll say the
Putin look there they're selling whales
why is it such an outrage that Russia is
doing it when marine lands doing it hmm
so there's that concern the other one
and this just came up with in the last
twenty hours is it appears rather than
go the most responsible route which we
know is going to be a costly endeavor
but you know we're game and we're ready
is there now considering just dropping
the nets and saying see you later and
letting all the animals go here's what
we suspect they're gonna let the orcas
go because they were captured illegally
there's some gray area as to whether the
beluga whales have been captured
illegally or not so I think it'll
probably start with the orcas rather
than move them to where they were at the
same time of year when they were
captured so that they can be
next to their putt they're Trent
transient pods or their their their pods
they just want to drop this this net and
say see you later well that's as
responsible as it can get but that's
crazy
it's like making someone a slave for how
many years
well here's somewhere on the planet but
imagine their hope you can imagine would
be OC it didn't work Jesus there's a lot
of there's a this is a big issue we're
on it there's a there's a great team of
activists over there would it be
accurate to say that maybe what these
groups are doing right now is
recognizing that there's probably gonna
be some radical changes in the way these
things are permitted what's legal what's
not legal and what people are tolerating
is just not the same as it was ten years
ago catch them and sell in as fast as
you can yeah I just get out while you
can because it might come a point in
time well not only could they not sell
it but they might be responsible for
doing exactly what you said and bringing
it back to the area where its family
would be it did which would be an
incredible cost it'd be an incredible
cost it would be an undertaking unlike
any other rescue that we know of and how
much would something like that cost I
can't even imagine I mean I would be the
wrong person to ask
I can't put a figure on it I just know
that it would take a lot of time there
would be a lot of dedicated I mean we
would need a vest a pod yeah you'd have
to figure those that would be able to
bring the whales out I mean and you
would have to be able to somehow or
another get it close enough to the other
worlds without freaking them out it's a
whole thing but it's possible I mean
that's the important part of fuck man
the whole it's just one of those things
that I really think as people were gonna
look back on and we're gonna go man how
did we in 2019 not know that that was
insane does that is not a chicken you
know I'm saying I mean it's not like
something you could just keep in a cage
that's dad so let's back up to as you
know it for well over four and a half
years five years now I've been
advocating for Bill s 203 which is AB
and against which is a national connect
Canada wide ban against
whale and dolphin in porpoise captivity
so that would include no more breeding
no more important more export and
that okay during these this by the way
is going down as the longest bill ever
researched in Canadian history because
it's been a lot of issues from
opposition a one one senator in
particular in fact if I can have a
moment to just give senator Don Platt a
big ole I win you piece of shit which
camera do I look at for that I win you
piece of shit so I should I should be
more humble but was that the other guy
this is me no no this is the senator
that has put every possible Block in
front of the passage of this bill he's
tried to kill it silently forever I mean
this is an epic epic story we've had to
as activists and the community at large
and again I have to stress how much
you've had a hand in this is I've had to
read I've had to have these campaigns
where we literally flood the Senate
servers to the point of crashing it on a
couple of instant instances where they
were gonna kill the bill very silently
through a sort of procedure he's got as
uh his role is a is called the Senate
whip so he actually yields a lot of
influence and power he creates the
committee's where people do the studies
and everything
he sets the the dates for the committees
I mean he had this thing studied for
like seventeen straight months it was
absurd again longest tenure in in
Canadian legislative history it appears
but this guy was you know doing his so
he kill it do you think that what do you
think like why was he doing that he's
one of these guys who looks at this bill
and he sees it as a activist sort of
left-wing Liberty you know liberal sort
of fluff bill he doesn't see that it's
necessary he went to Marineland as an
invited guest
he's very publicly declared his
friendships for John holder I don't want
to speculate as to whether there's been
any money exchanges but I know he's
certainly very interested in killing
this bill and by virtue alone of
activists pressuring and exposing all of
his as efforts we actually saved this
bill on a number of occasions the most
notable of which was just a few weeks
ago we're in the House of Commons it
appeared this bill was going to die and
literally at the eleventh hour I packed
up we drove to Ottawa
I had a tweet storm
we put pressure on I tweeted individual
senators are rather individual members
of of Parliament and I promise them and
you know this is a sensitive time in
Canadian politics for Justin Trudeau the
leader of the Liberal Party I promised
them if this bill dies on account of the
fact that what was happening was the
Liberals were gonna propose amendments
to the bill at the last second that
would send it back to the Senate for
further review
at which point we know Don Platt was
waiting in light to kill it there was
nothing we could do at this point this
was going to be his to kill the fact
that this was being facilitated by
liberals was really an infuriating thing
but nonetheless we applied an incredible
amount of pressure I drove my ass down
there I got that I stood in front of
every which one of them and I look them
all in the eyes I'm just like I'm gonna
make you famous
I'm gonna make you famous and I'm gonna
and I make you famous and I don't want
to speculate if that's what if that's
what saved the day although it was
mentioned in the House of Commons that
special interest pressured them at the
last second but in a in a less a legal
can you say that to someone I'm gonna
make you famous
I think it's it's my most if it's my
most effective tool it's like a scene
from like what's that what was the
cowboy movie where Val Kilmer played Doc
Holliday remember tombstone yeah sounds
like a line in tombstone right no you
know what it's from the one with the Bon
Jovi song you know those those you know
shot down or blaze of glory you know you
know those those those cute guys in the
it was at the 80s or 90s that are all
like did a western movie the other gun
yes it's from that I'm gonna make you
famous
oh shit sorry I knew I'd heard it from
somewhere I think it's from that I'd
hoped I'd hoped it was my line but
nonetheless what member Emilio Estevez
this is arguably the campus cheesiest of
the cowboy movies right
is it the campus I don't today I didn't
see it I don't know they're all handsome
Devils sorry so I so I show up at a show
literally they at the BRIT before the
meeting starts the entire committee
stands up and leaves the room
what now we're we're there and we're
prepared for this to die I'm there for a
funeral they come back in the
conservative members of the committee
proposed their amendments the Liberals
which away the the Conservatives are you
know they're all voting so they're just
knocking these things down knocking them
down knocking them down and then
suddenly it comes to the Liberals time
to propose their amendments first guy
comes up and he says I'd like to
withdraw my amendment noted on the
record sits down okay we'll go to number
two I'd like to withdraw my amendment
sits down number three I'd like to
withdraw my amendment with the same
interest as me and you know I don't even
know exactly what's going on at this
point I just know that their faces are
indicative that this we might win this
thing and the fourth member of
parliament stands up and he withdraws
the amendment and we saved this thing in
the last second and I absolutely know it
was a pressure campaign because like I
said I was gonna come on this podcast
I'd already had this date written for
some time and this was going to have
political implications that I don't know
that the Liberal Party could have
sustained it's a really bad time I think
this came from the top down whereas
efforts to kill it came from the bottom
up this came from the top down you're
not killing that bill I think people are
understanding what dolphin captivity
really is what Orca captivity really is
I think they're understanding that now I
think it's just one of those things that
exists because it's always existed but
if it didn't exist now there's no
fucking way anybody would ever let you
do it if there was no captive dolphins
and orcas if someone just went around
and kidnapped them with what scientists
know now about their social structure
and their community dude they're so
complex the way they they have fucking
dialects right it's they have dialects
orcas have they have they share
languages in different regions and
actually have a different accent of
sorts I mean it's it's really remarkable
stuff yeah right it would be a global
outrage if today as day one they someone
said hey look at this thing let's put
this in this box because we
I'm already well because we have them
and there's some legacy businesses that
have been around for a long time that's
a great way of putting you know they
have the means to fight they know now
that look this is not going so well you
can you can see it in all the
advertising these days
SeaWorld almost rarely shows any orcas
and their commercials although it seems
the industry is sort of switching to
baby walruses in fact they're there
they're the new orcas they're sort of
the new brandable cute really yeah it
really is it's happening all over it's
happening in Canada as well the
Vancouver Aquarium is running with it
yeah and the same as SeaWorld if you go
to their their Twitter it's you know I
can't say that present day it's it's
like literally the case today but yeah a
lot of baby walrus stuff it's where it's
going it's just they know that they can
run with that at least for the time
being what's crazy and all this is here
this bill is passing now we know it's
going to pass it's it should be it
should get Royal Assent comes second
week of June shy of some some
catastrophe this thing will become law
that's why Marineland is trying to get
rid of these whales as quickly as they
can they gotta get them out of here
because at least now they can just well
it sounds like to to export permits have
been approved to the so to beluga whales
are going to Spain you know now granted
that's being facilitated through the
Vancouver Aquarium this becomes an ugly
mess here because when it comes to zoos
they're all part of these associations
okay and these are these are industry
voices anything that's if any time
you're told wow this is an ace at a
accredited facility
you know most schools for instance or
general people would say oh well it's a
credit it's a good place no no no what
that means is these places facilitate
animal transfers one not to other member
facilities it's really just a club and
this club protects the interests of
these parks and keeps any type of
oversight lack their lobby groups
basically so what's happened is now
through the Vancouver Aquarium marine
lentsoe marine line is sending these
whales to Spain but they're claiming
them to be Vancouver Aquarium whales
which is not true they were never on
these animals inventory or rather this
facilities inventory list there's never
been any knowledge of any of this but
happened is because Vancouver Aquarium
is accredited and has an affiliation
with the ACA so in Canada we call it
cats of the Canadian Association of zoos
and aquaria and it is in fact not they
no longer have their accreditation they
did they didn't have the best of
relationships
shortly after all of our revelations
it's all just right now it's just the
industry as a whole is breaking all of
its own rules to facilitate getting
these beluga whales Marineland has 51 of
them okay there's five born every year
but they always have 51 and they don't
they haven't shipped an orca out in
nearly a decade at this point I mean you
do the math that what's going on exactly
so they're dying they're always have 51
they don't ship them anywhere else I can
attest that yes when I was there and in
my experience you don't have to watch my
words because I know marine lands lawyer
Andrew burns is listening hi Andrew I'll
see you next week in my experience yeah
you're for as many animals are born
you're just about losing as many so
you'll lose to old ones you'll lose
three young ones not all the ones that
are boring it'll be successful just
about half are so so what's happening
now is the industry wants that bloodline
there's 51 captive orcas whereas you
know there's a lot of controversy and
importing animals from other place that
the states can't in fact they can't
bring them in from Russia without a
public consult period it might still be
the case with Canada so actually the
public might actually be consulted about
the import of these five belugas that
Marineland is seeking permit for it to
export so that's something that
certainly has activist level I'll be
I'll be you know helping to guide it
towards the proper resolution but yeah
that's all happening it is a race right
now to to get rid of marine lens animals
and and it is a wild time is it's a wild
time to be inside the doors at
Marineland as I can imagine in the
fences and it's it's a most wild time
for me to be on the outside because I've
never in the last six-and-a-half years
of litigation just of my advocacy and
being sort of an you know basically
being engaged in war with marine land
I've never seen them work harder to
suppress me and to try to silence me
than they are now
uh as breaking news just today marina
and had built this fence aptly named
Phil's fence around the park and just
today we found out they blacked it all
out with tarps because come this
Saturday May 18th and certainly I'm
inviting everyone to come join me I'll
be joining as an as a guest a big
demonstration outside of Marineland and
we're gonna protest it as there and as
they're anticipating because on account
of my coming on this show they worked
very hard to try to keep me from a
coming be speaking of anything see
certainly not promoting this event so I
certainly hope that this event is it is
well it's how do they try to do that
well because we're in litigation what
happens in litigation is you come to a
point where you start to negotiate and
so there's things that they want from me
there's things they really want from me
they want my silence the problem is
they're never gonna silence me it's not
an option I've said it before I'll say
it again they can offer me a million
dollars to shut up go away it's not
gonna happen I'm not gonna delete my
Twitter I'm not gonna delete any of my
tweets that have the word Marineland in
them this is a request these this is
layers and layers and there have been
layers of requests basically they'd
hoped that I wouldn't come here they'd
hope something could be worked out in
our litigation we have so now I chased
Marineland so back when marine lands
owner was still alive I put forth a huge
campaign to try to get him to be
examined legally by my lawyer much like
I've had to sort of submit myself to but
as these lawsuits and as litigation
continues to reveal itself as just a
perfect method of abuse you know that
they're just the only resolve these
things appear to serve is to exhaust
both parties and have them come together
with a resolution
two six and a half years Marineland
seems intent on a resolution they don't
want to go to examinations so while we
were in so while I was there to be
examined a couple weeks ago my lawyer
said take a walk and the two lawyers
began their talks we put off the
examination because we believe there
could be some good faith that could be
shown between parties it became quite
evident that it was not the case and
when we were to resume our examinations
which was to be last week
Marineland on account to the fact that I
was coming on this show through an
absolute tirade and said we are not
doing this now bear in mind this is a
court-ordered examination date
I've got a trial coordinator who is
trying to nudge this thing forward
because I mean that's something that's
so that's a motion I had to win in the
litigation itself is to try to get
someone to look at this thing so that it
can actually move forward like let's get
someone to manage it so we're in case
management so that case management judge
has issued a very aggressive schedule
it's in back in February we had a court
date of which thank you very much I won
handedly marine Lynette to pick up just
a little more than twelve thousand
dollars of my legal bill which is really
on this particular motion in this event
a kind of a drop in the pan but
nonetheless a sound victory in court you
know we have a case conference call next
week now I don't know where this stands
because now murrayland has breached the
court's order so we went they didn't
show up the examination I got a fourth
what's called a certificate of non
attendance
it means the person that was supposed to
be examined that they didn't show up
Marine Lines owner John holder who's now
passed away didn't show up to two of his
examinations knowing full well then I'd
have to pick up the 1700 bucks - caught
- just to be there to get the
certificate and he's just not going to
show up no big deal there doesn't seem
to be any punitive damage out there and
they they're I mean we're almost seven
years into this thing and they're still
like brutalizing me but we're at a point
where they're actually in a very
uncomfortable position of having to keep
this thing if you don't want this
litigation to be on the public record
and transcripts and evidence and
everything you have to stop it seems to
me the court
appear to facilitate resolutions of that
sort they like settlements I was
promised a trial on day one it's what
kept me going they're lying about me
they're lying about everything
everything they're saying and they're
trying to exhaust you financially well
of course they are I mean that's the
premise countersuing them as well
I'm countersue them the premise of my
countersuit is so that they couldn't
merely drop my the lawsuit against me
over a period of time and then that'd
just be it and that I would I would then
have to actually file a motion to get
some cost back I'd be lucky to get 50%
everything in the early days my lawyer
said let's sue him back and so we did
I'm suing them for abuse of process
they're using the courts time resources
they mean even for that matter we can
extend that to the police and other you
know departments and organizations
they're exhausting these things in bad
faith they're doing it because they just
want a shredder basically they want to
take away my right to free expression
which is a Canadian chartered right I
mean I'm protecting my own history here
I mean this is insanity I can't even
believe that after six and a half years
I'm still here at risk of being silenced
that the fact that I mean look full
disclosure I'm out of money
the last time I was on this show we
raised I mean and again thank you so
much 60 or maybe almost 70 thousand it's
in a year and a half that's gone I spent
my last penny last month it was a very
aggressive last three months do you have
a go fund me I have a go fund me
information yes please what is it it's
if you go to save smooshy calm SAV ESM
oh oh shi calm you can go there there's
a small documentary it's a little dated
now but on account to the fact that
legislation nothing's really moved
forward in the lawsuit and the
legislation is only just wrapping up
it's still very current so please spend
the 14 minutes to sort of appreciate the
story more I guess you'll get a better
more context to it there's you know some
some footage in there some back
backstage stuff some pretty you know it
tells the tale quite well it's a it's a
it's a good piece yeah folks if you're
if you're hearing this please help it
out if you can you know joy say it all
the time it's the thing I hate to do
most is ask for help understand Smith
well your intentions are pure you know
you
really are a person who is going about
this because you feel like you are
uniquely qualified to talk about it you
have the actual information you know
what's wrong you know even you know and
you're a part of the system you
understand it better than anybody and on
the outside can they have my walrus and
they have your walrus still we think and
so when and so when in the litigation my
lawyer says well here's what marine
lands prepared to offer I say to my
lawyer but what about the walrus and he
says to me do we talked about this this
is crazy you're not getting a walrus and
I said to Marineland I don't want no
money not a penny
I want the walrus there's two left three
have died in the last it's really in
mere months secretly I find out what
would you do with her I mean ideally
what I would like is I just want her
transferred at this point to another
facility I would love to see her
transfer to the Vancouver Aquarium or
there's a facility in Quebec as well I
just want to be a possible to possibly
be in her life if she needs me which we
I mean there's a reason she's in one of
them to still alive I I would a comment
listen would you move to Vancouver if
suddenly Dan Bilzerian gets on the
horses Phil I got this uh yeah well
actually I hit my wait there's a
backstory to that too I actually got
some beef with him inadvertently but
we'll get back to that but you know if
he were to suddenly say hey I got this
arctic beachfront home and do you don't
buy you a walrus yeah I move absolutely
I mean she's got another ten years of
her life uh do you know there's you only
one way of artists to be with this
walrus play the music is there a better
this to the story I mean really it all
sounds so crazy Joe but here's sixty six
and a half years ago I was like I want
the walrus
right suddenly Here I am negotiating for
a walrus call me crazy but so are they
willing to negotiate for the walrus is
this actually in consideration yes yeah
not without layers and layers and layers
of compromise and but bear in mind not
in the capacity that I see it more of a
yeah maybe maybe we won't send her to
China how's that maybe we'll send her
somewhere and not deter that facility
from you visiting maybe we could do that
for you
that's what I mean it's it's really bad
faith negotiate the problem with the
thing that I have a hard time dealing
with is look we're in litigation in you
know in in litigation you have to
exercise a certain amount of decorum and
it's not exactly my strong point it's
just not I find decorum to be just a
thick layer of bullshit I just do yeah
you want to hope that there's gonna be
some type of good faith negotiation I I
want that Marineland negotiates with
additional hostilities and threats it's
not worked for them in six-and-a-half
years what makes you think it's gonna
work now so here I think we're going
down a path of possibly good at
good-faith negotiations the the owner
the the villain of the story is gone
he's out of the picture the the new
president who is the the widow the wife
is a wonderful woman I mean listen if I
honestly and truly believe if the lawyer
himself wasn't the controlling mind of
the business now he's got sort of
facilitating this transfer of the
business as it was to just being sold
off piste off and and you know
distribute the wealth to the for the
remaining family members I think that we
could I think this story ends on a good
note I mean I have no hostilities you
know I have every reason in the world to
despise the man who sued me and I don't
I don't even think about him it was
never about that they made every case in
the world every argument that this was
personal between me and him and well
that's because you look in the camera
and say fuck you two people it's
personal between me and Don play you can
bet your ass that's a different story
but you don't I'm saying did I make them
famous
well you've um so where do you stand
right now well I don't know so next week
we're having a case management the case
manager is gonna talk and we're gonna
see what becomes of marine lands once
again skipped examination it's so hard
to believe this is still going on dude
welcome to my phone from the time you
first came on the podcast to now this
has been just this scratch and claw
every day of my life I live with this
looming cloud of threat of like there's
people out there that really want me I'm
not talking physical threat okay they
did they played their games you know I
called
every one of their Bluffs every at every
corner of this thing but there's
something about when you say they played
their games they sent goons to my house
yeah there's video in fact that there's
on that documentary you'll see these
they sent some tough guys I mean they
were sending people at 6 a.m. harassing
my girlfriend while she's taking the
garbage out I mean it really got pretty
intense but we stood our ground I was
like this is not gonna go down like this
it's like you're fucking with the wrong
guy dude like listen I come from a place
called Welland Ontario I don't know that
you're familiar with I'm gonna assume
not probably few people are unless
you're an avid hockey fan because we
have produced some pretty amazing NHL
talent but you know this population of
like 50,000 I'm a well endure I don't
know any other nm Frenchman I mean it's
probably another thing to stress but I
don't know any other way to deal with
things other than sort of fight it out
you know you know cower and run you
don't you know you stare the threat
especially when you're on the right side
of things I'm not gonna sit there and
take shit I'm not gonna it's not gonna
work for them to continuously try to
threaten me because dude I'm invested
and I'm not talking money I'm in on it's
like a hostage situation it's how it
started my only interest is ending the
hostage situation that not my only
interest I shouldn't say that of course
not you know I have interest in sin you
know I've been advocating for the bills
and obviously advocating and letting
people know they're sort of taking the
veil off the bullshit that the industry
or feel like you're negotiating for a
hostage in smooshing they're they're
using her as that type of chip yeah
that's their bark that's their
bargaining chip that's what they got the
end they're keeping this constant
pressure on you this constant final
threats
constant like my lawyer in fact and this
is where it gets kind of weird because
listen I don't understand he's supposed
to be representing me the answer is no
to everything fight fight fight I want a
trial he instead is coming with listen
this is not how litigation ends feel
like you don't seem to understand how
this ends you don't have a grip of how
the litigation work and I'm just like
I'm glad that I don't because my guess
is I representative about 90% of the
population that don't know and it's
important that we find out I was
promised a trial because they said I was
this this this this this well let's get
that fucking trial this is what I've
been doing this doesn't end with
negotiations I want the trial yeah I
don't understand like what why would you
sue me unless you want the trial oh
because it's a bullshit lawsuit well
then I want the trial because I need to
show that I need that on my record I
want that I want the truth they fucked
at the wrong guy I hate to say it I'm
the old allows suits they've launched
and launched in you know in excess of
like 12 and threatened and and it's
important to note I've been threatened
and I'm constantly under threat of
additional litigation I'm the only one
left and the only lawsuit that's I'm the
only person who hasn't had to compromise
their free expression it's the dirty
secret about the legal business right
that says a loophole this is something
people can do to people to silence them
just to drag them through hell for six
years
maybe ten who knows how this goes right
I mean this is a case manager I mean I
had to fight in court at great
expenditure to get this case management
and if you put this up to the general
public and have them look at what the
actual facts are and have them look at
what these people what their businesses
what they're actually doing it's game
over it's game over it's a real problem
for them
the real problem is it's an indefensible
activity having those animals in
swimming pools for people's enjoyment
like but to follow that up with trying
to crush people brush my fiscal
sovereignty I mean look no there's
nothing good on their side find what
they tried to do to you for what the
businesses like to operate in full sort
of transparency because look I'm
I guess I'm sort of sponsored by the
public so I feel like a level of
transparency and all this but you know I
had a little bit of money I'd won a TV
show called wipeout and I had 50,000
Canadian dollars tax-free in the bank
which i sat on because I didn't know
precisely what it is I was gonna do with
it I felt like there was the potential
of a rainy day around the corner it took
that in the first six months six months
to to hire lawyers for everybody
everyone I was getting sued I was
cutting $5,000 retainers for going
there's a purpose for this money I only
have it because I got on the show
because of my relationship with the
walrus
so I'm in for a good chunk of change
here it's crazy the lengths of which and
the ability corporations have to destroy
individuals the fact that the court is
there to facilitate it is precisely why
I want to go to trial I've been told the
figures are and please don't quote me
and I'd love the facts but I've been
told that's something in the area like
90% of lawsuits get settled without
going to discovery I want to be I want
to be the 10% or less I wanted I want a
resolution by the by the judge I can
sleep at night if the judge says okay
it ends with this fill you get fifty
thousand dollars of your at this point
in excess of two hundred thousand in
legal bills and Marineland you lost so
you know you you got to eat the shame
and walk away
I would assume be more comfortable with
that than if Marineland said here's a
hundred thousand dollars don't talk
about the I mean let's say and the best
kid scenario they said here's a chunk of
change let's just use a hundred thousand
dollars and said just don't talk about
the terms of the settlement but other
than that you have no impeded speech you
can just be free I would be more
comfortable with the judge's decision
then that hundred K because then at
least I know exactly what it is that I
went through I that world can find out
what function these courts have and what
their version of justice is I mean I'm
just still I'm trying not to be jaded
because obviously it's a heavy load to
carry as in your day to day it's you
know I've been on the cusp of crazy I'm
thankful for plant medicine for sort of
keeping me grounded and keeping me and
with the proper perspective but plant
medicine listen you happy they do try to
call me hippie a lot too it's
interesting I mean a little bit of a
different version of hippie I suppose I
mean I don't mind war well your your God
cares about these marine mammals
now walruses like my daughter do did you
consider that fact you're just like dude
that he's got they've got your daughter
that's a mess doesn't try to put
yourself in a perspective that if they
had your dog your neighbors got your dog
and his unimpeded ly
by your definition abusing or neglecting
their life and you're there to just
watch silently I mean that's disgusting
that's a disgusting scenario this is the
poison that I live with I hmm
I need I need a proper closure I'm
relying on there being a level of
justice so that one day I can live in
this world without being just that old
jaded dude look last time I was here it
was not nearly as fucking gray like I'm
starting to feel the effects of
long-term litigation you don't have a
podcast do you I want to do a podcast
I'm to do a podcast I'm surgeon you
well people you know they just you know
feel you we should have podcast do a
podcast do and I have to get a real
simple thing for you to do I know I'm
running on you got a lobster saying
you're great talker
thanks Joe I appreciate that why don't
you do it I am considering it yeah I
really get mad at me that I keep
suggesting that people get podcasts
which stop bro stop doing the you know
you said to me when we were in Toronto
at dinner you should be a comedian I
said I've heard that before
sure but spartax i've heard you mention
that on number times - that - I've said
people well this so few of us on there's
more podcasters and there are comedians
for Shore not even close there's like I
think there's more than 600,000 podcast
now on iTunes so yeah there's not
600,000 comics there's like that's a big
pool to wait in you know but I mean I'm
in I mean happen if I did it would be up
for my own purposes you know I would
because there's categories of course and
for someone new I guess you'd probably
be in his conservation a category or
wildlife or something like that you know
you would you would launch pretty
quickly and it would be fascinating for
people to have you ever heard like one
of the really well produced NPR podcast
like the drop out was it and did NPR do
the drop out the one on Elizabeth Holmes
and the Thera knows controversy the
blood scanning stuff anyway it's an
amazing multi-part series that describes
how these people made this phony blood
testing technology and sold it and made
millions of dollars and was there were
worth valued at billions and now they're
literally virtually worth nothing so
it's by ABC radio that's who did it
nightline that's what it was ABC News
Nightline but something like that could
if someone wanted to follow this and and
document it from the beginning in a
podcast form this is something that
really could be like six one-hour
episodes yeah if you were talking about
your history with training or cos what
you thought it was when you first got
any when we went into that and several
the other episodes but think about this
me you and I have talked now how many
times you've been on now this is my
fourth okay so each times been like
three hours so all those all those hours
of discussion if someone condensed that
into your story I think it would be
super compelling and then you could also
update people on the case you could
update people on the state of marine
mammal captivity legislation and and
because there are countries that are
right now waking up and realizing this
is crazy like this is almost like human
slavery it's like finding aliens and
just keeping them in a cage somewhere I
mean the timings right I don't that so
yeah I mean perfect again with the
looming litigation I do get a little bit
sort of tongue shy because this is just
gonna be a poppy suit again man this
kind of freaks me out I really what you
know it's the same premise of writing a
book it's like great write a book but
it's like I can't do anything with it
because I'll be sued I'll be soothing
it's a virtual guarantee now the the the
bright side is it seems to me like
Marineland is not going to be around for
terribly long a terribly long time
once they're dissolved oh you bet your
ass I got lots to talk about I mean I
would love if I could speak of
everything without having to sort of
watch you know I really do have to keep
from saying a lot of stuff not on
account of it being illegal but just on
account to the fact that it will it'll
virtually guarantee me additional
hostilities and you know yeah it's kind
of I completely understand I do look
forward to that day where I'm sort of
free and unencumbered and just can just
be fucking me again you know yeah well
if you're in that business right now
you got to be looking at the future
going we got to get
we gotta get out before they take us out
that's precisely what's happening so the
speculation is a marine lands lawyer is
now the sole controlling mind and he
that's precisely what his job is to
transition this from we know that
they've sold property they sold the golf
course they sold the campground we know
now that they're there I'll say I'll use
the word selling it might not be the
right term because marine land claims
they'll be no financial exchanges but
you know that that's yet to be seen
yeah the writing's on the wall they're
gonna be gone I don't think the wife has
any interest what I mean she's she's
pushing 70 something it's probably
doesn't want to be a part of this she's
never really had a heavy hand in it I
mean she had her she had she sort of
took care of the cash business aspect of
it she's sort of she had her role in it
but it wasn't like a management position
making decisions on animals health
importing exporting things like this
like it's just beyond her so what we've
been told is that's marine lands owner
in his final days there's a wish list
this is what happens to the park this is
what happens with this this is what
happens with this and you can bet your
ass that there's something about a
walrus and there's something about me in
there what it is at least that I know of
right now is obviously hostilities till
the end I think that what's happening is
the lawyer is fulfilling John holders
wishes with me I think it's I think it's
in the books that he can't just end this
thing or I don't know it's time I know
the guy's dead let it go folks a lawyer
doesn't like me I can't be on the same
you talk a lot of shit bro
well you know what he actually said
camera Feldman go fuck himself or
whatever he said that's gonna be in
court document I didn't say that I said
that to Senator that's okay
will it be in court documents oh he's
watching he's listening I mean I sort of
half hope that he Sue's you joy to say
that my sort of fuck up so I don't wish
that on my best of friends but man would
that's he's something it's not gonna
happen
but fuck do you know it's not gonna
happen no you're just talking shit you
just put it out there man yeah it's not
gonna add you jus we talked about this
last time too I think that what they
do in terms of that business for their
own sake they should stop for everyone
that's profiting off that you've got to
find an exit strategy and I don't just
mean Marineland I mean anyone who
understands my language that's that's
hearing my words you should stop this is
not the future this is you can't do that
anymore this is going you this is going
to look horrible just a few years from
now where people who've seen blackfish
people who do understand what those
things are the more we find out about
dolphins and orcas the more we
understand them it's gonna be more and
more it's not like oh wait a minute we
just did some tests we found they're
like crabs bro they're dumb as fuck like
you just eat them that's not gonna
happen man we're more and more impressed
with them the more we study them I am
more than happy to negotiate with marine
land that rather than signing any type
of non-disparagement because I don't
want my speech virtually locked in a in
a in a legal document I'm a forgiving
person I don't need
I'm only responding in kind to their
hostilities they come at me with war I
bring it back I don't want to I have to
yeah I take it right back up to where
they bring it then they do this I got to
do this then they do this I'm like what
he fucking thinking it's like if they
would just just dial it back I can be a
happy smiley not chirping Marineland guy
I don't have to be I don't have to do
that I've done what I've had to to be
where I am the man who was who created
this scenario is gone we don't need the
hostilities anymore so what is the
lawyers motives exactly I don't know but
I can assure you now that they've
blacked out the fence they're doing
everything they can to suppress our
information they've bought up all the
billboards in all the available
billboards in Niagara Falls so that
they've got Marineland signs because we
have put up like as activists activists
have put up billboards one of which was
like right at the entrance of marine
land last year is a thing of beauty so
they you know they bought all these
things up they really don't want bad PR
right now my guess is trying to get rid
of the animals mitigate the PR losses
because it's already at the sound
foundation of it of bad PR and sell the
property get rid of it all and I think
you know they're trying to fast-track an
accreditation so that they can
facilitate animal movements and whatnot
my greatest weapon right now
unfortunately is that I can assure them
a great deal of of financial risk I have
and I certainly can and am right now
they need to take that into
consideration when you consider the
price of a walrus and let's just use the
number a hundred thousand which is a
grossly inflated number for a walrus and
let's say marine land were to say
hypothetically well why would we give
you $100,000 asset when it's gonna cost
us less than that just to finish this
litigation and we'll owe you 25k at the
end of some shit why would we do it
doesn't make sense and I say to them
it's because I'm gonna make that walrus
cost you tens of millions consider that
lose the hostilities I'll make you guys
heroes we can do that too the Nair this
narrative doesn't have to continue the
narrative of war can end with with the
dead owner it could have ended but well
they're all invested in it and one of
the things about lawsuits it's like
people when they get it started there's
a game going on you're trying to win
you're trying to win trying to get the
other side to cave I mean this is a lot
of what this is all and obviously you've
taken this very personally and this is
all part of you now can I explain
something really messed up yeah I now
because we're coming to an end the the
law that I've been advocating for is
going to pass this lawsuit is going to
end the animals will that I mean we're
gonna find out what's gonna happen to
them in in the in the near future we
already know it's what's becoming of
some I don't know what it's gonna be
like to live without a lawsuit once the
prospect is not a nice bro you're gonna
be on the beach to feed up when the
prospect came round of me not having one
anymore that's not how I saw it
it's weird I'm oddly connected strangely
addicted and married to a fucking
lawsuit I get it you'll be fast it
listen we'll get you through that's
right that's be real stuff that stuff
will put you on the planet that's
outside Pluto that we haven't discovered
yet and I see you've got the Tyson ranch
box
yeah man I got a Tyson ranch box he
hooked me up and then that big box is
from what is the company that gave us
the big box the speed weed that helped
but right like it I think the extracts
company ABX extracts or I'm not sure who
honest don't know we should help the
shout out that company different things
in there I had I was elbows box speed
they're the best and they're they're
fucking they brought me a war chest so
get in there I'm actually gonna be on
the UM Tyson's podcast tomorrow are you
really and I was kind of stoked in and
it was a Thursday and I'm really in what
world am I sitting down smoking a bunch
of weed with Mike Tyson well it's the
one that was created on account to these
crazy decisions that I made the fact
alone that we've come together like this
dude I'm talking with with Whitney who's
you know she she says to you that I'm a
hero unless she's my fucking hero man
like I say it
that crazy lady drove all the way to
Texas with a fucking pig she tried to
like help this pig out that she found
she fed the pigs and they drove all the
way to Texas with it I love her level of
crazy I think it's just fucking perfect
it fits exactly what this needs
and again I'm blessed that you that you
sort of turned around to me and I know
she was she was looking to have a
conversation with you with regards to
some legislation the dolphins and will
kept to me whatnot you sort of steered
her in my direction yeah let me touch on
the Danville's area i think i is he
coming here on in may is that right on
the pot yes nothing I know okay someone
had said to me oh I heard and he's gone
before though
yeah I know he has I thought that was
coming out sooner kind of made me
nervous cuz so I a couple weeks ago
Whitney's like just just drilling dan
Bilzerian on Instagram for having this
polar bear right there's video of a
polar bear to fucking party and he's
feeding it she's just she's what a party
yeah I was like a big there's a big
brown bear grizzly was a big grizzly
bear morally yeah on a you know electric
fence around everything else so she was
he probably one of his crazy his house
yeah oh Jesus Dan Bilzerian what the
fuck bro oh my god he had a fucking
brown bear at his house look at the size
of that thing
oh my god
anxiety did he ever see the fucking what
was the yeah yes yeah the one where the
bear rip the guy's throat apart that was
one in a movie to us no the bear was in
a movie the bear was in a football movie
what was that movie let's go on with the
basketball I think he's been a few
movies but with Will Ferrell were they
playing basketball you like wrestled him
in the middle of the basketball game was
that the bear yeah I think so
well there was a bear that had been in
movies and had done stunted movies and
this guy video was awful because the guy
is literally just standing there and the
bear just goes up to them and just
decides to attack and rips his throat
out in a second it's exactly that video
- the this yeah it can happen at any
freakin time only you got 45 girls in
the back scantily clad easily could
happen you know what's really crazy is
that that bear that killed that guy they
went back to training them they're not
gonna kill an animal that has value it's
the same as the Orca that killed all the
trainer's they could they're not gonna
kill him it's just not gonna happen but
they were trying to like figure out
whether or not he was gonna do it again
like Jesus Christ what do you uh
soothsayer how are you gonna figure out
what a bear is gonna do it's gonna be a
bear asshole there's gonna be better air
stuff the people that are bringing that
are trying to have you interact with
these animals like that they're they're
they're relying on the animals shock
factor the shock and awe you know
they're bringing these animals in the
close proximity to scare you that's a
fucked up thing man
that's the bear right there look at that
throat apart so so horrific so back to
the the Whitney thing so Whitney's just
just harping on Danville's and he's
deleting the comments as quick as she's
tossing them so I decide okay well I'm
gonna weigh in now right so I throw a
comment and I forget about I turn to go
off do my thing and then that night I'm
on the Phil DeFranco show not me
personally but he actually takes the
comment because they know he got a lot
of likes and stuff I said something to
the effect of you know that's an abuse
then I'm all blah blah blah it's not I
said something you know smoke more weed
they put the comment up oh by the way
the guy who handles the animal he was
sort of he was using some legal sort of
jargon with me as if he's maybe was
talking about lawsuit nice - fuck it sue
me legal jargon to the guy who's Anna
Tori because I said that's a starved
abused animal I mean I know how do you I
know how in the history of wild animals
when is a bear ever walked out today I'm
gonna become fuck friends with some
you know fuck this well there's a garden
out when there are little Cubs you know
that of course
so they starve them they abuse them they
have them I mean but do they have to do
that to train them I know there are
people who claim to love bears that
train bears to take care of bears and I
guarantee you they don't all do that it
says big no-no there's nothing fun about
abusing a drug starved animal delete
this and your penchant for animal
exploitation smoke more weed I don't
know a smoke more weed just like gonna
help that but it wasn't a chirp that
what do we feel the Franco said it was
like I was like smoke more weed you fool
I was just like no no smoke more weed
like go inside one thing okay got it no
longer yeah it see I feel like there are
people that have bears that raise them
and I'm not in any way shape or form
endorsing keeping bears in captivity but
what I see is people that have these
sort of intimate relationships with
these really well-fed bears they're big
and happy and they feed them and they're
get in the pool with them and it looks
ridiculous but I don't think they're
starving that bear and I don't think
they're abusing that bear and I don't
think you have to do that I don't think
you couldn't automatically assume that a
bear is starved and abused so I assume
the starved part I certainly can't say
but it's a big bear those a fat bear
nice feeding it might be hungry that day
I mean it's more than saying we'll look
at the body on the bear Oh big not even
well-fed bear you can have a well-fed
animal that's hungry for a week there's
no question about that
but it's not likely that that thing
started my definition of abuse is
there's an electric fence around that
fucking thing which is that yeah you can
see it at about the ankle at about ankle
there's a fucking electric fence it yeah
well I'm sure whoever so back to that
pic I'm sure whatever installation the
the person who brought this thing does
has to keep the animal within confines
of so much you imagine you just went on
a model killing rampage like that's an
electric eye that's again an assumption
I'll say but again I don't see how that
wouldn't be what the hell does that
serve as a barrier it's just a trip line
otherwise for that is so and said that's
a well-fed bear though son look at that
the motherfucker eats that is a big ass
if you want to get an animal to do
something if you want it to be docile
you have to try
you have to sort of there's there's
braking the animal in many cases but
I'll assure you Joe that food
deprivation is in training is your most
effective tool it just is you can find a
healthy balance right but food
deprivation is but we've got one you've
talked about this particularly with
dolphins to be fair in my my experience
of wild animals it is with marine
mammals so yeah not worked with bears
there are bears at Marineland it's a
really it's a disgusting display it's an
archaic it looks like it's out of the
eighteen hundreds even I mean it really
is a disgusting place but the practice
was to starve them mm-hmm and what
people do there is they pay like I think
it's a buck and they get like this this
is a little cup full of corn pops and
you the Bears are like waving yeah
historically there's been bears I mean
he's got they've got like 40 or 50 bears
in this little confined space I mean
there's nothing there's no more no
greater abomination of nature than I can
imagine than a solitary largely solitary
animal sort that confined to a bunch of
them of the speech and then historically
they have ripped each other apart and
though I can actually delve into marine
lands history deeper than I can and you
get to hear the full spectrum of some of
the things that happened and bear in
mind and it's important to note it was a
different time different times different
things happen and that's just that was
the that was that was the norm it's it's
you know starkly contrasting time to
when marine lines started so but the
stories are like really it's
jaw-dropping it's really jaw-dropping
stuff but yes it's on one hand when you
have children and you bring a child to
the zoo on one hand it's really
fascinating to watch this little person
look at all these different animals and
and and freak out and and see how
amazing it is but that's the only Pro is
introducing human beings like little
human beings in particular to these
animals everything else is a con except
for the animals that are like really
endangered and they protect them and
help breed them and then sometimes they
were responsible for some reintroduction
efforts but other than that it's an
animal prison weird I don't take the
position or ideal I don't know not this
person that's trying to represent an
ideology necessary
not against all zoos but I have to say
that there's nothing more sad than
seeing elephants cats bears in cats man
the cats when they're pacing back and
forth I mean just get them out of there
whoo-hoo sir whose purpose are you
serving is that good for you I mean
seeing an animal that's got Zucco sasai
mean it's it's it's it's a mental case
and we don't know what the fuck's going
on in their head so we have no idea that
most people just watch and think this is
just maybe normal or something right a
lot of people
we're not see because the veil is only
now sort of coming off and people are
started now getting the truth on the
matters you start to see things for what
they are I watch the video on YouTube
some weeks ago and it was Marineland in
the 70s and man was this place busy and
the people were just I mean they were
they were climbing over each other to be
next to the pool I've never seen
anything like I worked at 12 years I've
never seen the amount of people that
this thing had and we looked into pool
there's a bull Orca who's he spans the
literal length of the pool that he's in
on the side with his this dorsal fin
over and he's literally staring at the
wall not moving and then you got two
other massive orcas that are in this
pool like maybe five times the size of
this room kind of thing and people are
celebrating like it's and the view the
video has like this sort of quirky music
and it's kind of funny and fun and I'm
watching this going what a disconnect of
time like where this you're looking at
exactly what you see today in terms of
the animals and the conditions that
they're in yet here these people having
knowing nothing about it just in awe the
beauty that met the majesty of these
animals is the majestic nature of these
animals and yet we couldn't see for
ourselves whatsoever how abusive and
gross this was it's it was really a
weird and strange thing but that's you
know marine lands a legacy business they
built they built themselves on having
people come and experience the shock and
awe of these animals and they did very
very well but that time is long gone now
long gone I think we're gonna come to a
time in the future where people think
the same way about zoos I think it's
we're just we're gonna realize like I
get that you want to see them I get it
I get you want to see them I get I i'll
on i want to see them too
but god damn we got to stop doing that
like this is no way also for you that
the problem is humans don't have any
real experience with animals
we have experience with dogs and cats
which are these domesticated weird
little fluffy friends they are not
animals we don't have much experience
with real animals and even the animals
that you have experience with they're
urbanized you know like pigeons that you
can feed or squirrels that take peanuts
from you you can out into the world in
the the world of the wild of forests and
mountains and you you see actual real
animals and it's almost psychedelic
there's like a weird like paradigm shift
that goes through when you see a wild
animal in though in the actual like oh
this is where it's supposed to be it
kind of feels weird because you're in
their world you could be that because
now you're like oh what because the
series of tools that that animal has in
its world that doesn't translate in
captivity for instances like wait a
second that thing can spring on meat why
mom out like like I'm in its world now
it's to me that's the AH of the
experience of witnessing animals because
since the year and a half that expired
that from our last show you know I had
the blessed the gift of seeing dolphins
in the wild I went down to I can
remember what Beach it was but it was
while I was in California and that was
my first experience in fact again I'm
from a small place and then this year I
was able to go to Washington State and
see orcas in the wild now I've jumped
off orcas rostrums into the air so high
that you're looking down into Dixie cup
to land and that's pretty awesome but
there's nothing like having seen fucking
Bull Orca with an eight-foot mass on his
back swimming next to his mother and all
the never my heart sunk into my stomach
I'd never seen anything more majestic
Wow Wow yeah do you know anything about
what's going on in the Pacific Northwest
where there's a pod of orcas that exists
primarily on Chinook salmon and they're
starving oh that's the so in fact it's
important it's a I'm glad you mention
that because just yesterday and today a
bunch of different protections are being
announced for the southern resident
killer whales which are in the Salish
Sea so it's going to impede sort of
vessel you know they're getting their
real
focusing on doing what they can what's
happening there is they've got this
Snake River Dam system that needs to be
what happens they put this system in and
the Chinook are just dying they can't
get through the flow is gone so and they
put the system in a long time a long
time ago so it's virtually over time has
been decimating these populations no one
really knew why but we're at the point
now that we know that these orcas
exclusively chinook and there's just not
enough and whereas they used to be
massive ones now they've got these two
little tiny ones and you know there was
a I mean that the plight of the southern
resident killer whales is really I'm
glad that it's got getting global
attention I'm sure you're familiar with
the mother who lost its calf and mourned
for an excess of like 40 days and
carried her on on her head yeah and the
type of vigil I mean this was this
captivated the world and you can't look
at an animal capable of such suffering
without being acutely aware of the
damage you're doing when you separate
them from their family the natural
environment let me explain the
difference when bears see their cubs
dead they eat them yeah that's a
difference yeah this is the you're
talking about something that's insanely
emotional it's a different kind of
animal that's the thing that we're
learning is the most notable aspect of
these animals is their socialize their
emotional intelligence capacity I'm
afraid of what it is the depth of which
we're gonna find out that they're
capable of of bond because particularly
if there's ever some sort of a way of
translating communication if they figure
out a way of breaking down those sounds
and expressions into something that we
can decipher we right now they don't I
don't think they know much I've been
underwater with orcas and dolphins and
I've heard them you know I've heard
forget I can't even tell you the sounds
I mean they've got a wide array of
sounds but you know I could you know to
the best of my abilities I could tell
you when an animal was excited based on
their sounds they were making like when
when our Orca Neosho was pushing me
underwater to do a rocket ride which is
when you jump off into the air and you
do this big majestic jump you knew it
was gonna be a good one when she let out
this squawk at the bottom of the pool
before pumping her tail and launching
you just knew it man this she was on she
was on fire and then Oh
you just you just knew she wasn't into
it and I could just I could know by the
sounds you can really determine
underwater sound alone you could really
get to know your animal again I was
there 12 years I mean I really got to
experience a lot of things other people
could never really truly understand
which is really why it's important
really important that I'm able to speak
to these things because I mean even when
it comes to the legislation that is
passing I've had my name mentioned in
the House of Commons I mean this is a
national stage of how to mention in the
Senate I mean some people care about
what is coming up just yes just a few
days ago in a Niagara MP actually this
would be a great video if you could if
you could pull it up it'll be on my
Twitter it's one of the things i
retweeted with the MP the local MP he he
bashes Marineland I mean that is a thing
of absolute beauty I'm glad that I'm
able to talk and explain to people what
it is that my experience has shown me
and the things that I know because if
people know they'll do better problem
with their videos if we play that video
gets claimed oh really so House of
Commons video it's public the government
thing they lose your okay but I don't
know if it's from is it from a news oh
but you know what the app that the group
that put it out because they okay if you
go to my Twitter your check you have to
be really careful no I just leave had a
shitload of problems Niagara region one
I can assure you this marine animal
justice will have no problem with you
doing this I'm good friends with that's
okay gives me a lab chuckle will just
helps try to get to it but put that back
up so I can read this it says marine
land and unfortunate place with horrible
conditions okay
yeah he's I mean this is a member of
parliament this is on the non you know
this is the this is the big stage right
here and he's finally it took a long
time for people anyone in in in the in
in public policy to ever wade into this
subject now we got people outright
saying like this place is a hole I mean
wow what what how far we've come in the
last six and a half years the world is
changing my friend very changing whether
people like it or not and this is one
that I think it's it's unavoidable this
discussion in this resolution this this
has to
the we have to come to grips with what
that is it's just it's just all kinds of
wrong man it's all kinds of wrong and
the fact that they're still suing you
after all these fucking years as if they
think it's working as if it's serving
them any purpose so here I am again on
the fuck adjey are you like are you
kidding me dude you don't even know the
favor you're doing me if you don't even
know what you've done
come on what like what what what are you
what do you want to accomplish what have
you failed in accomplishing and what do
you think you're gonna accomplish by kin
like continuing jamie is the virtual
definition of insanity it's not a good
move Jamie who was it that was on the
podcast who was explaining the the
processes in place of reintroduction
into the wild they were gonna have
stages and nets and stuff like that and
these big outdoor areas where they can
transmit dolphins and orcas - who was
that do you remember too many goddamn
conversation is that me was it you we
talked we spoke of the whale sanctuary
project I mean that would be of the I
mean that's essentially the the basis of
it the goal it was that maybe it was you
was it discussing how there's places
where they're gonna have like
intermediate steps yeah absolutely
maybe maybe you guys expanded on it was
someone else but no that's is the basis
of this project is and I mean the good
news is the whale sanctuary project I
mean this thing is going to happen it is
the future if they're there they're
there they're well into the process of
finding a site considerations are being
made for a washington state's site at a
vancouver site but it appears as though
they're settled on maybe nova scotia the
community there at large is looking to
work with them that's a wonderful that's
wonderful news and I'll tell you
something Joe once this law gets royal
ascension becomes law what happens is
marine land is not able to export the
animals unless the Minister of the DFO
the Department of Fisheries and Oceans
concurs that it's in the animals best
interests well if such a site exists and
marine land is keen on getting rid of
their animals we'll have a place for
them I told you last time I was here
that my dream is to save whales
this might happen
additionally if there's a real concerted
effort a real effort to rescue those
animals in Russia I may very well be a
part of that team
so we're six and a half years ago I was
talking about speaking of a crazy dream
where there was no blueprint there was
no foundation I just I'd sort of threw
myself into the universe and said I'm
just gonna hang my hat on a dream I'm
watching in real-time as it's
materializing that's a hell of a
perspective humbling that is amazing
this thing that we were talking about
with the Pacific Northwest there are
it's the resident population that has an
issue because they only need each and no
salmon but then there isn't there a
another pod that comes through there's
transients and they're thriving because
they eat everything the transients are
there they're giving birth to doing
quite wealthy marine animals they eat
marine animals correct yeah all sand
stuff when I was there the guy that was
with us literally said can you smell
that I'm like no what is this smell
that's sort of oily weird she's like a
seal is getting eaten somewhere next
thing we know we saw the activity or the
dorsal hmmm everything and yeah sure
shit there's a lot of a certain smell
you could smell that that the seal was
being why can't they teach these smart
whales to fucking eat what their friends
are eating why they have to be rude it's
like they won't eat Chinese food
fuck Chinese food are you starving to
death no I want a burger it's a rare
occasion but there's something called a
super pod where it's actually a
congregation of all the different
families of orcas into this into this
event where they all think they
congregate and it's a big social event
and and there's a conference that
happens every two years in Washington
State called super pod which is
organized by a good friend of mine Jeff
venturi it's an amazing event I look
forward to being there again and
speaking I gotta get to another place
for me to speak and and and roam about
with experts and whatnot and learned a
great deal of things but I was we were
on the cusp of that almost happening
because the boats are radiating to each
other like okay well we've got family
going this we got a family going this is
like wait a sec there's three families
going on the same the same directions
think there's gonna be
a crossing of pass and this is where the
boaters get really excited either at the
prospect of a super pod of sorts or
conflict or they have conflict if a that
could be but I mean for the most part
it's verbal they just tell you like
staying yeah I imagine their messages
are quite clear and you've got a fifteen
thousand pound bull male Orca giving you
the bird yeah you're gonna listen fuck
yeah
associate ranch holds man oh yeah when
you see their mouths wide open and see
their teeth you're like what the fuck
are you why why don't they start eating
mammals and I wonder if anybody's ever
studied the difference in the behavior
between the transient pods that eat the
marine mammals versus the behavior the
ones that only exist on salmon like
maybe they have a different maybe
they're like you know like Avatar like
there was different different kinds of
people up there my go to my go-to source
is Ingrid Visser she is a top she's the
woman in New Zealand that swims with
orcas rescues because I mean she is a
top the the really the global spectrum
of wild orcas scientists she'd be the
one to talk to you about that I mean you
want talking what a fascinating person
to talk to holy shit the wealth of
knowledge she has and and she is a she's
a very passionate advocate I'm very
proud of done some very very let's do
good work with her I'd love to talk to
her when I have her on the show yeah I
would love to talk to her I'm so curious
about those things oh she would join her
mile but if there was a difference if at
all and behavior if you were to invite
her on the podcast she would get on the
next flight from New Zealand and come
here I can assure you that so say what I
think I think she may have a universe
maybe she told me that now they're
amazing animals I've always said that I
mean this is coming from a a
self-admitted Bigfoot dork I'm a Bigfoot
dork I really wish Bigfoot was a real
thing but if Bigfoot was a real thing it
wouldn't be nearly as cool as an orc
no I give if we found some big stupid
stinky ape that's been hiding from
people forever like wow that's cool but
is isn't much cooler than a chimp or a
gorilla
what just because it's bigger know what
an orca is is really cool that is a
super intelligent super killer that eats
sharks tell
killing machine that that has great
whites turn tuck and tail and run just
fuck up a great white shark like it has
no business no business being in the
ocean or the perfect weapon in their
world I mean there's nothing that
touches them they're literally at the
zero risk they have no predators I mean
they're just too damn strong and too
damn smart and coordinated they do their
kills as teams I mean that you're
literally up against an army out there
try to be a 500-pound Seelye and that
would be a big seal and army of thirteen
thousand pound killer whales who has a
who sort of enjoy playing with you a
little bit before you die I mean it's
all interpreters play but more often
than not it's training the young ones
and stuff it could be a brutal thing I
mean I don't love watching it personally
because they know I've worked with seals
as well I mean it's I take team Orca all
day yeah you know you're not getting
great odds but put the hose on it and
you'll you'll get some returns one of
the win every time amazing videos I ever
saw was an orca with a beach seal the
seal he had bitten it and tossed it
through the air and the seal it made its
way to the shore and it was actually on
the land just with a little bit of water
and the Orca beached itself grabbed
ahold of seal and just start smashing it
in the water there and you see the water
just flood red with blood and then it
hops back and Wiggles itself back in the
water and swims when you look holy fuck
crazy holy fuck
these things we beached themselves that
thinks 15,000 pay now do they ever get
stuck yeah they do they do in New
Zealand in fact that's where Ingrid's
work is is really special that she's
dude this is a crazy story I have a
friend that I grew up with Matt Harrison
he went on to the to be real involved in
the army so they could decades into the
army now he was on a training mission in
New Zealand they were doing this
training on a beach and didn't they get
called to go perform an orca rescues
just like Oh what so now he's running
and now they've got shovels they're
trying to figure this thing out and now
Ingrid shows up as the you know it she's
the person to call and now there's a
photograph I'm waking up in the morning
to a photograph of Ingrid at this end of
an orca and my friend Matt Harris from
the same place as me a little town and
well at the other end of the Orca and
I'm like you gotta be fucking kidding me
and I got to reunite the two of them
back in
Niagara Falls in the summer cuz Ingrid
had come down again and I'm like dude
it's these are blessings that I couldn't
have even ever imagined and yet here he
was and you know and he'd be the first
to tell you when he came back it changed
his world it changed him never again
Marineland done whereas before it might
have been you know wouldn't necessarily
case he was part of this rescue he's
changed man like he's just I mean now
he's fascinated with our cousin he can't
imagine he got the bug now that's
amazing um listen is there anything else
probably a million things but no no
we're done for sure I I'd like to give a
couple shutouts let's these do give you
a shout out to the Kanye West mammals
would they call you the kanye west of la
yay west of animal trainer oh there you
go absurd so animal justice canada i got
a do shoutout to Camille who's who's
next way they're calling you the con us
that's it from November Wow bro 2013
that started it all man I say wait
they're calling you the kind of Wow the
Kanye was a Wall Street so how's it
defend himself against 1.5 million a
lawsuit Wow yeah yeah shouting man it's
it's been an honor to be your friend oh
dude you've you've changed the landscape
of all of this by the way I know you
don't look I get it I can do this all
day
the first shout-out is to you the last
ones to you the one in the middle Steve
every one of them like you've changed my
world personally but you've really
changed the landscape of this entire
thing Whitney said it best today she
goes you know Joe really is the guy to
move the needle on this thing and I'm
like you're damn right so like a couple
of Fuxi worlds out there as often as you
can and just you know keep this stuff up
because you you've had a heavy hand in
all this along with for instance senator
senator Wilford will Wilfrid Moore who
is the person who to table this piece of
legislation Maurice Sinclair
I gotta extend a thanks to to the leader
of the Green Party Elizabeth May who's
really taking this thing it's her baby
and processed this thing through and
yeah if you didn't hear me shout out
your name sorry
it's there's some very satisfying things
about having a podcast and one of the
really satisfying things is being able
to let people know about something that
for them is very important like if
there's many people that are listening
to this as many people that are hearing
this that
are trying to understand with your busy
life with your bills and your
relationships and your work and your
your also living in a world where
something is happening that most likely
would be thought of as a horrendous act
in just a decade or two decades and then
we're going to be looking back saying
how the fuck did we let this slide how
did we do this
and I think guys like you if it's not
for your sacrifice many millions of
people don't understand this as well and
that's real that's you that's 100
percent you your sacrifice your ability
to describe it so eloquently and your
courage to keep fighting this this is
very important I have for the human race
I've had faith through and through and
it's no right it's not failing listen
you're right you're right when it comes
to this you're right when it comes to
and these marine animals that are super
intelligent being stuck in swimming
pools it's fucked up it's got to stop
yeah it's got to stop while we
understand what it is you can't keep
your head in the sand with this this is
this is madness this is a terrible
terrible thing and we need to stop it
well as much as I've had a hand in it
thank you Joe my pleasure
listen thank you walrus whisper on
Twitter Instagram yeah I'm just learned
Instagram but I'm getting precise it all
walrus whisper if there's a the the one
on Instagram has got a little it's got a
little bit of a different but I'm Ted
you know it's it's it's attached to my
Twitter there but if you look up Phil de
Murcia you'll find it all it's okay I'm
easy enough to find your bad
motherfucker Phil thanks my friend bye
everybody see ya
[Music]
[Applause]